Yeah.
Well, there was a lot of suffering that went on. I
guarantee you that in the military with Laos and
Cambodia, at first you couldn't bomb. Even Swede
Larson, I told you about, he came back to Vietnam,
had been a corps commander, and he told about the
enemy across there in the border. And he got called
on the carpet and said, you got to call a press
conference and tell them that you're mistaken.
Because it wasn't in the interest of the United
States by someone to admit that there actually
were North Vietnamese utilizing Laos and
Cambodia, you know, coming on that. So he called a
news conference. He said, well, I announced that
the State Department knows more about what's
going on in Laos and Cambodia than I do. And I was
wrong when I said there were North Vietnamese in
Laos, particularly Laos. Of course, later on, we
know that we were bombing and doing good well. But
that's kind of the type of war. I go on and I'm going
to take the town and all sorts of things, you know.
Fortunately, the poor soldier down in Vietnam
doesn't hear all these things. like if you just got
killed by somebody shooting across the border,
you know, and say, oh, I didn't come across the
border. It was to the north. Were you in Vietnam, or
not Vietnam, in the Pentagon on January 31st,
1968, with a Tet Offensive? Yeah. Do you remember
what the feeling in the Pentagon was about the Tet?
Because just four or five days earlier, General
Westmoreland had had made a major statement that
we were winning and it was all downhill now, etc.
And then all of a sudden we had Tet.
Yeah, I think some were concerned about that, but I
don't think it was as bad as the press reported,
because actually Tet wasn't a victory for the
North Vietnamese. No, it was a victory for us. It
might have been embarrassing to Westmoreland to
have sat down and have this large attack with the BC
and the North enemy.
There was some real good street fighting in Saigon
by, not the combat troops, but MPs and some of them.
They got into the streets of Saigon and were trying
to get to the airfield, I'm sure, to get the
Westmoreland Tent Corps. So it didn't seem to have
that much of an impact. No. What about the riots in
the United States? By 1967, 1968, there were a
number of demonstrations against the war in
Vietnam. There were even some marches across the
bridge in the Potomac and on the Pentagon and
demonstrations outside. What impact did that
have on you and senior military officials?
I guess you'd call it disgust because you should
have seen those people, who they were, or what they
looked like.
Yeah, they tried, they tried to get in the, in the
Pentagon, tried to get into the joint, yeah, and
they were young. It'd be long hair, smell stink for
any of the girls. They had intercourse right out
there under the bushes.
We camped out, and the girls yelled. See, we had
soldiers who were blocking that. They'd spit on
them and throw things at them and call them all
sorts of obscene names.
We kept the other entrance. Fortunately, they had
the front entrance there rather than being in the
back. So business went on as usual, and there
didn't any of them get inside the Pentagon.
Basically, the officers were disgusted by the
situation. Is that the word? Yeah. Well, I know I
was, and I think you all had to think, because it's
different from some of the other demonstrations
we've had, where you've had some clean, concerned
citizen type of thing. But they all looked and
acted like Some will admit now that the main reason
I'm against the war is that I may have to go, or maybe
I've already been called and I'm hiding out now.
So, you're discrediting what they expected to do
in the Pentagon because we aren't the ones that
decided it. Of course, they were going to try to
stop it, but I tried to stop it. the work of
government, you know, for a day or two days, like
cluttering up the streets, throwing trash cans
out, lying down in the street. That was to keep
people going to work.
But I say most of the disgust was the smoking of
marijuana. You could smell it just appalled all
over that place. And I said, actually, you could
see these characters having intercourse under
the bushes.
And then they camped out near the river down there.
And they went nude and had intercourse there. You
could see them from the street. So it isn't exactly
fine, idealistic young men and women that
sincerely believe. And I'm not saying they
weren't sincere. But I don't think that's an
element of society that's going to impress me,
particularly with their conduct. Now, did the
officers inside the Pentagon talk about these
protests? Oh, sure. What was the general feeling?
Just exactly as I said. And, of course, most of them
would go a step further than I did in saying that we
ought to get holes or something and push them away.
At least they'd get clean, see?
You couldn't do that, obviously, not in a Greek
society like we have. There's another thing I was
wondering about, and that is the big question. In
your opinion, why did we lose in Vietnam?
That's difficult to answer. As
I've said before,
the military recommended against ever getting
involved in Vietnam. I know. And they often quoted
the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time.
And if anyone who would look around the map on here
and say, now, where is the worst place you possibly
could find to fight a war? And you'd come to
Southeast Asia, especially if you say, The two
countries are neutral, and you will not be able to
conduct operations there, regardless of what
happens. Now look at this long, thin mass, see,
with this unnatural line drawn up here that's
going to be north and south. And you go, who's the
enemy? Where are they? Well, they're north of
Vietnam. No, they're not. They're not down there,
because that was our position. There are no North
Vietnamese South. These are all patriotic,
freedom-loving individuals who have their
stomach full of this despotic leader, and they
just want to eliminate that. It's a civil war. Now,
how can you go in there and stabilize a civil war?
But the VC's been supported by the North
Vietnamese, which in turn is supported by the USSR
and also China. Well, How do you know that? We don't
think so. Well, they have an agreement, like we
have an agreement, to form support for a lot of
countries, like Iran, for example. That doesn't
necessarily mean we're supporting them in war. So
as we talked about earlier,
whether we were responsible or not, the leader
they had was assassinated.
Well, some said he was Catholic, and the Catholics
were. were dominating
the masses, see. And if you just eliminated him,
then you'd have peace. Now, I have no at all
information that we had anything to do with it.
Certainly not the assassination. They're
supposed to have been able to document that. But I
think we did have something to do with his
elimination overthrow. We didn't mean for him to
be killed. But I'm not even sure about that because
I wasn't connected with it. have no knowledge of.
But anyway, that was probably the first mistake.
Because it was downhill from then on. Because he
did at least have some following. And if you could
convince him to carry out the land reform that had
been promised to him, and to be more tolerant from a
religious standpoint, maybe it wouldn't have
been so bad. Maybe it would have happened anyway.
As far as you're concerned, who can, if the
American public, we all seem to need a whipping
boy, who would you blame as, or what part of society
would you blame for the responsibility of losing
that one? Who has the main burden to bear? Well,
it's probably a combination of Congress
and perhaps the President.
I
guess the military in some way that I'm trying to
think.
How, because our recommendation was never
accepted. But the same people have said, because
they, well, you expect that from the military, you
know, they'll shoot down everything in sight. So
there wasn't much attention ever given to the
recommendation of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. At
one read, you find that Air Force general acting as
chairman was so abrupt, he saw an opportunity
here. He had the piece of paper, you know, he'd go to
use his authority to get the bombing committed.
But it all started with Kennedy, with the special
forces he was so on, that we would never have to have
a large, continued troop. They could go in there
and help out, because they're going in And their
tribesmen there, just like in Iran, speak a
different language. They hate the central
government. You need people to go in there and
train them. They even have medical teams that can
help them out. They tend to stabilize the country,
see. And see if you can't get them to
place their allegiance on the central
government, see. Communism never entered into it
at that time. These really were VCs that are
unhappy.
They were unhappy ever since. Going all the way
back to the French. All the way back, really, to
World War II. So do you see the war more as a
nationalistic campaign than a communist one? No,
it developed into this, and we played the game. By
we, I mean this nation.
Later on, then, of course, when Paul D. Harkin, the
one I mentioned, is retired in Dallas now. He was a
commanding general there after the Green Parade.
And he pointed out that with the present status quo
there, we're not getting anywhere because what we
wanted is a stable government with a unified
country. South now, we're not North, we're
leaving that out. South Vietnam, unified, land
reform, stable government. And that shouldn't be
too hard to attain because then the VCs wasn't as
strong as they later became. But as we put in, Then
the North Vietnamese became more active, and the
USSR supported them more so with equipment. Now,
we played their game. We put in, they put in. And it
kept adding it up. Pretty soon, we had
hostilities. And the South was secure, at least
stable.
Later on, we put troops down in the South. fought
like hell down there see because then the BC came on
down to Laos and Cambodia and there they were in
there. North Vietnamese even. Now at one time we
had the strength that we could have knocked North
Vietnam out of the war. We could have bombed the
harbor with precision bombing which we later did.
It's true that we kind of scraped off the paint on a
few Russian ships but Nothing really came on it
except, of course, they loudly protested. We had
the capability to completely destroy their
war-making capability. And we could have landed
anywhere along that and actually occupied with
Marines. Occupied.
Not all, you wouldn't have to, but you could either
go inland or you could make amphibious operations
because they didn't have the power. But that is the
way we played the game, see. a little bit more and a
little bit more. In other words, we almost told
them, we won't use our power until you have a better
chance of countering it. Of course, that wasn't
the thinking at all, but that's the way it turned
out. We didn't attack the North until they got
rockets and improved their air defenses where
they could shoot our planes out of the air,
including B-52s. We didn't use B-52s until they
had a capability to shoot them out of the air. They
didn't have that capability at the beginning when
we started having caveats down in the south.
Neither could the USR support them, because they
had to bring things in from the USSR by ship. China,
really, as we found out now, as much as we know about
them, they didn't have very much they could
support them. But they really didn't have a lot to
give them. But we didn't do that. Now we're
dragging on. We have all these caveats. And our
nation turned against them. They were tired. And
one thing that made them tired is looking at that
dribble every single night on television. Then,
of course, they sought out their job to do that. The
most dastardly scenes and crimes that you could
imagine. So you put a large responsibility on the
media? Well, yes, but that's unfair. Yes, I do.
Because I have heard An individual. I don't know
his name. It says that he was directed to submit
copy based on a party line or position they had. If
he sent in copy and pictures that deviated from
that, they would rewrite it and use the library of
pictures to support that position. That happened
in Iran after most of that. I was on a ship going to
London, airplane, going to London to a meeting.
Syngnam had that Persian Gulf area
responsibility then. After that, there was
really a planning meeting for Iran. And this plane
was full of correspondents that had been in there
covering the Iranians. And I guess it was Life
magazine. Either Life or Time, I've already
forgotten. had just come out with a cover story and
all those things. And these others were razzing
this guy about his copy. They said, you know that
didn't happen like that. Where'd you get all that
stuff? He says, well, that's not what I submitted.
That was rewritten. And he said, you see that
picture there? I didn't take that picture of the
photographer. That's a picture that was taken in
North Africa. If you look closely, you can see that
that's not an Iranian standing there. That's an
Arab. And that's a different tank. And do you have
proof that the media was doing things like this in
Vietnam? Or are these just things that you heard?
Well, I don't personally have proof, but there are
others that have proof of that because they talked
to somebody that day. Most of it was hack truth, not
fabrication. You can take a picture and write any
kind of story you want to. But it wasn't favorable,
I'll put it that way. Then later on, I know this to be
a fact. In many of the newsrooms and places, they
had LBJ's pictures and they used it as a dart. They
wouldn't anymore write anything favorable about
LBJ because they hated him. One reason they hated
him, you know why? He insisted on going out here to
the ranch and living, see. And the press, we didn't
even have the nice hotels we have here now. They had
to stay at the Stephen F. Austin and a bunch of these
ratty-looking hotels and had to commute back and
forth. And it was very uncomfortable. And they
blamed him for making life miserable for them. And
they wouldn't anymore give him good coffee. Now,
him and the person wouldn't make any difference,
but he attacked the war and everything to get at him
or him because of the war. So the whole thing just
got this country So sick, including even the
military, going on and on and on like that. You see
how Congress changed. They voted two votes
against the Gulf of Tonkin residents, the guy from
Alaska and old Morris, I guess. I guess he's from
Dakota, isn't he? They were the two who voted
against him, Fulbright and Leslie. And they
practically gave the president anything he
wanted to. It was an undeclared, declared war. And
so he started up. But in summary, it looks like the
whole thing, in your opinion, is a mess. Terrible.
Well, let's go ahead. Just like the desert
operation. That's terrible. Terrible. Made the
military look like acid. Wore out our equipment.
All of these caves. Billions of dollars. Just
think how much we made. One of the reasons for
inflation is because What do we do? We just printed
more money, see? Didn't raise taxes. We didn't
call up the reserves, because they didn't want to,
supposed to upset the reason, of course. Good
reason we didn't declare war, because that had a
lot of trade implications worldwide. Had all
these games, but for what?
Sounds like you're demoralized. We expanded,
instead of calling up the reserves, We expanded
Austin Candidate School in the draft. So what we
brought in, 18 and 19-year-old, 20 years old, we
actually, short of noncommissioned Austin, so we
identified these young men in basic training that
indicated at that short time an aptitude for
leadership. And of course, you go by, interview
some, you know, what you asked for, you're a
leader, you know, what did you do? He probably was
captain of this football team, leading the debate
something. Anyway, he indicated something. So
right then, we put a thing around his arm and he
becomes what amounts to as a corporal. He's a squad
leader. He's a contemporary of these guys. They
came in together. So we keep on and hopefully he is
having to learn leadership at the same time basic
training. And we go on where he becomes a leader.
He's identified as a potential non-commissioned
officer. Then he's just in his training unit, you
know. So with that, we gave him some additional
training. Oftentimes, he gets to Vietnam before
these other kids that he came in to serve. That's
the young man who's a non-comm for this other
private, although I'm not the same age. He's
expecting, you know. that he's expecting he does.
He's fighting a war. This guy here responds with
his squad. And then he finally, if he survives, he
gets to be a platoon sergeant. OCS the same way.
They're young. They end up by having an OCS
graduate just out of school with his non-comm
that's just out of basic training, advanced
individual training, not just basic training.
Then above him, you've got a captain. Who is this
captain? He graduated mostly about two or three
months ago,
maybe longer now that he's a captain. But
oftentimes the characters were so high, I won't
exaggerate, make him a company commander as a
first lieutenant. And then that applied in just a
short time. Now our policy of rotating officers,
we tried to leave them in there not much over a year.
This pipeline keeps coming in from the state. Now
we're rotating the officers, so when they get a
year's experience, they're gone, and somebody
new comes in. So you've got inexperience leading
to inexperience, and it just keeps going like
that. It's just terrible. That's the reason I say,
if you sat down with what I know now, the school and
the experience, and tried to figure out where in
the world would you select not to fight a war, after
having select this gosh awful place, how can I
structure my personnel management procedure and
principle to add to that terrible place? Well, I
would come up with what I just described. Now, how
would you handicap these people in this terrible
place, restrict the bombing and air support to
just in front of them. But this is a guerrilla-type
war. You can't see the VC. Well, we'll use the
foliage. We'll just clear out all of the
underbrush, you know. All of that time and energy,
and now it turns out it's probably a terrible
thing. They say, well, that's great that we got
that. Well, what about North Vietnam? Well, don't
touch them, because it's our policy that they're
not in South Vietnam. It's our policy. It's not in
Cambodia. It's our policy. It's not in Laos. But we
see them there. You don't understand. Now, are you
giving these kids really a fair shake? Now, I add to
this. These are the kids that are not going to
college. Many of them are black, more than their
proportion in our population. And is this fair?
And that's the reason why I don't have any patience
with all these who missed all of this, because they
should suffer like these guys. So you feel that our
soldiers in the field were treated unfairly from a
number of viewpoints.
They just weren't given the support. That's
right. Now you've got them in there. Now they're
rotating. They see all of them die. It looks like
that they may... I had the same feeling in Italy. I
don't know how many people we lost here going...
Three miles, look how many miles I got to go ahead of
all these mountains. Nobody could possibly
survive that thing. Here they are. They're
hopeful that they can survive for their year where
they can go back. It wasn't like that. Even in
Korea, we had
success.
Vietnam, you know, it's searching. Search and
destroy. Search and destroy, and you go out and you
come back. Muddy, raining.
But I think if we go in and support and say, okay, we
didn't declare the war in Korea. This is not a war,
but we're going to fight it like a war. And if we get
somebody exposed to death, then we owe it to him.
We're going to give him full support. And we're
here. The best way we can stabilize a country is
clear it out. and not fool around with a pocket of
B.C. here and there and send out. We finally got so
scattered that we had to use most of our troops to
secure our bases.
There's no way to fight a war. What you have to do is
clear it out the way that you don't have to
do it. Let's go on to your last assignment at Fort
Monroe, Virginia. Were you happy to leave the
Pentagon after three years of pressure? Well,
yeah. Anybody, see, because I lived in, as we
talked about, in Fairfax, Virginia, and had to
commute heavy traffic, which took quite a
considerable time, because what I did, usually,
go to work real early, and then come back after the
rush. Most of the people, most of the rush was on the
bureaucratic time table. But I was ready to move on
to something else because that's long enough. And
I was delighted to go to Fort Monroe because Fort
Monroe is a beautiful old post, one of the oldest
posts in the United States. In fact, when they
settled Jamestown, they dropped off a contingent
there on the, not Fort Monroe then, but on this
point. They had to guide the ships up the channel
toward Jamestown. And at Fort Monroe, you were
assistant deputy chief of staff for individual
training. Yeah, we were responsible. What does
that mean? We were responsible for all the
training centers in the United States. And all of
the schools in the United States. That's a
tremendous responsibility. And we had the
responsibility for each week bringing in
draftees. we'd have to decide which training
center they would be sent. And sometimes we'd have
to reschedule them because we had a...
In the United States, the draft, well, as you'd
expect, it was not the same. We'd get a heavy load
for one part of the country and a weak load in
another. And we had to decide, based on capacity,
which of those may be shipped. That's the first
problem. And then the second problem, after
they've been through basic training, where we
send them for advanced individual training. In
the Vietnam War, we were using all our facilities.
I'm dumb. No, that's why I was quite a junk. And then
after they graduate, of course, the Pentagon
assigned them to the unit. But we were responsible
for providing transportation from the training
center to whatever destination that they're
going. Now, we were responsible on the staff
level, of course, the people like down in the base
camp were the ones who actually rounded up the
transportation. Then the school, we were
responsible for the administration of the
school, the curriculum, standards were
maintained.
And all the schools have quite a few. How many
service schools were there in the Army at that
time? Do you have any? I got a black one. So there's
about 20 different Army service schools here.
Okay, so the big problem was the budget. You had to
fight for how much money was going to be budgeted
for each school. Everywhere, right. And there are
loads. Of course, during the Vietnam War, all of
them had a tremendous load, but I didn't
necessarily have the sufficient funds to support
it.
And I enjoyed that because I did a lot of traveling
there. I would imagine going from school to
school, checking out the training units.
Especially the training centers, because the
training centers, being full and having these
young men and having problems with heat
exhaustion and drill sergeants. And we were
responsible that the standard was maintained at
all training centers and not have one. And you
could tell. You get the end product, and sometimes
they could tell which training center they were
from. And we tried to correct that, at least to get
them all up to the standard of our best one. And that
had a lot to do, of course, with the commanding
general, the way that he conducted the training,
and how closely he supervised the training. Did
training change because of Vietnam? Was there a
lot more influence on guerrilla warfare? There
was. Each training center, we even built villages
like that in Vietnam. of all the different types of
weapons that they used, techniques they used, so
that when he got there, he had some kind of idea of
what to expect rather than having to learn the
first week or two. And during this period, of
course, there was a tremendous increase in the
number of blacks and the number of women. into the
armed forces. And there must have been an increase
of those into the service schools. Not women. Not
women. Well, we increased the WACs, but is that
what you mean? Yeah. But not integrated into the
unit. They served as WACs, as medical
specialists, as typeists, communication, that
sort of thing. But nothing like we have now. Right.
And did you have any, during this time, of course,
this is the rise of black power, and there were a
number of black riots in the United States from 65
to 68 or so. Did this have any impact on your
training centers? Did you have any racial
incidents? Oh, isolated ones, because you had
those before there, but there was no evidence of
any distrust or between the races are really
antagonistic. In fact, they got real close in
Vietnam, because all these deaf mixed partners of
a lot of strange people, you know. Boy, sure. Got to
be close buddies. Also, during this time, there
was a switch in administrations from the Johnson
Democratic administration to the Nixon
Republicans. And I was wondering if that change
had any impact on the way that you ran any of these
schools?
Because he did have a different approach toward
Vietnam, somewhat different, that is,
escalation in the bombing and the invasion into
Cambodia, Mr. Nixon. So that basically knows the
facts. Not really. Now, you take our aviation
school. And I even had difficulty getting some of
our military planners to understand this. That's
a school where you have a long lead time. And you
can't cut that old spigot off like you can a lot of
places. You already have these in the pipeline. So
as it started winding down the war, of course,
schools like the aviation school had to reduce the
load. And we closed. which was one big problem.
Mineral wells, you know, that was our helicopter
school, our base school. Real fine with the
weather. People around there were great because
they would permit you to use their ranch land with
no rental at all. Go in and out and use it. So we
closed that down. Did get permission. You're able
to do things in Texas a little bit more. Of course,
that wasn't such a source
of income for the community. Of course, it was
immediate mineral wells, but as you find, like
Fort Dix up in New Jersey, we've been trying to
close Fort Dix for years,
and we probably never will, because most of our
facilities are down in the south, and they say,
here, you're closing out all of the facilities in
the northeast part of the United States, and
putting them down in Georgia, Carolina, Texas,
Louisiana.
What about the Air Cavalry? This is, of course, new
in the Army. Yeah. And did that have any impact on
your training? Yeah. They, too, that aviation
necessary to and additional courses down at our
aviation school, which is down in Alabama.
But that's not too difficult. Of course, you need
funds each time in your budget. But
it's not too difficult to expand courses if you
have an active school and those trained
instructor that experienced it.
But we ended up, of course, at the end of the Vietnam
War, with more aviators than we needed,
obviously. And that becomes a morale problem
because we phased out some of the warrant officers
who were aviated to make room for commissioned
officers. And I was wondering why they decided to
take high school graduates and then train them to
fly helicopters and make them warrant officers in
the first place instead of using commissioned
officers. Why was that? The only thing I know is
that when I was involved with this thing, the need
for aviators was so great, and you could train a
warrant officer, CS Limited, responsibility.
You could actually say all you're going to do is fly
a plane and at least have military knowledge and
other things so that you can adjust the
environment. But an officer is supposed to have a
broader knowledge. It takes more time. Now, a good
question, another good question would be, why
don't you have sergeants flying helicopters?
Because some countries have sergeants flying
helicopters. Why do you have to be a warrant
officer? I can't answer that, except no one seems
to be receptive to that idea at all.
One thing goes, a warrant officer gets more pay.
You get a senior warrant officer, he makes more
than a captain. So for the pay scale, that's
probably... But did you take a lot of people who
were in sergeant position at the time and offer
them a warrant officer position if they went to a
helicopter? Yeah, and some did that. Of course,
you had to have some additional schooling because
a warrant officer has to know more than just fly the
plane. Sure. But yeah, they did that. We had a
warrant officer program. You could either...
planned to become a warrant officer through the
system, or for those sergeants who were
qualified, mentally and physically, could apply
for it and then become a warrant officer. Why did
you decide to retire? Well, I didn't have any other
choice. I didn't get promoted. And one of the
reasons I didn't is because of a fact I had on my
record showed physical limitations. And so I
retired at 30% disability. I didn't want to
retire. Gosh, I'd still be there at age 65 if it
weren't for being retired. But I'm very happy in
retirement. I've done all of the things that I
wanted to do.
But you didn't have firm plans. I think we were
talking about this earlier, but you didn't have
firm plans like you wanted to go to work for a
corporation or something like that. I was just
looking for something that I could contribute
something to. I talked to Nat Allen about Allen
Academy. I was willing to go there, work there for
him for free if I could just do something. But Nat
told me that, of course, he doesn't have anything
to do with it. He may still work there. I don't know
who owns Allen Academy now. But he said, I know
there will be problems I think he really thought
that I meant to pay me something. If they were
having a financial problem, they'd still be
happy. But I had already told you about going out to
A&M. Once again, then I was willing to do anything.
I might contribute something. And I think that
young man thought guys like me were a threat to
them. Did their promotions a job? He hasn't bought
it. I'm sure you've had your career. What do you
mean, coming out here? So I wasn't disappointed,
except I would like to build around that. Now, you
had a special review when you did retire from Port
Monroe, Virginia. Can you tell me a little about
that? It's just about over. They asked me for songs
there. What's Our Favorite, Stevie Gaines, those
things.
Then I had the Warrant and Standing Service Medal.
It was more or less a routine type of a General
Lawson title. Were you sad to leave the service?
Oh, yeah. Did you feel bitter toward the service?
Oh, no.
I love the service. It's been very good to me. I
don't see how anybody could be better. Well, I can
see why. Maybe someone like a Vietnam veteran
would, because he suffered so much, and he'd get
kicked out. Nobody cared. Mainly his community,
that's what's sad. See, we all came back in World
War II, and the lowliest guy, he may not have even
been in combat, but he was a hero, because he went
and served his nation and made the sacrifice.
Even in Korea when they came back, it was a little
bit better because, see, we did call some reserves
for Korea, the National Guard. That gets the
Communion involved. This way we didn't. We just
plucked these young men out, see. Somebody say,
whatever happened to old So-and-so? I don't know.
I think he went off to Vietnam.
The lesson from all of this is we should never
undertake a war or fighting that could become a war
that you're not going to support, knowing that
eventually the nation will tire, and when the
nation tires, they don't support. It isn't fair to
have these people. That's the thinking that
should be at the beginning. And I thought we
learned from Korea, see. But see, you have
different people, different characters. In
short, I can Here, just a short time ago, you could
see the feeling in Congress and elsewhere that our
military establishment is too large and we don't
need all these weapons and so forth. And in a short
time, it's changed where it's recognized that
there is a gap between the improvement of the
USSR's capability and ours, where ours kind of
goes like this and theirs continues to go up. Ours
goes down because we have less ships now. The B-52s
are older. Metal fatigue is already occurring.
Gosh, they're over 25 years old.
And they look critical. Nearly all of the nations
have conscripts in the one form or another. I was
wondering as far, we've talked a little bit about
advancement. And you said that you were lucky many
times in your military service, not only
considering advancement, but considering just
being alive. And I was wondering about
advancement. Did you feel that... advancement in
a bureaucracy was because of luck or fate, or was it
because of the things that you personally did? Was
it because of your own accomplishments that were
recognized?
Well, that's difficult to answer because of all
these answers. Of course, it's all three of those.
But for an individual to accomplish something,
he's got to have a lot of help. Yeah. I'm talking
about a unit. Now, I looked good in the 18th
Infantry because I had some real fine people that
supported me. I didn't do it myself.
Just a lot of pieces came together to make the
totality, I think, a really outstanding unit.
That was recognized by the support superiors and
gave me credit, which of course it should because I
should be the one that gets kicked in the veil and
relieved if it's done right. So I was fortunate to
have a unit that responded. I think I did
contribute a little bit to developing and molding
that unit into a really a fine organization. But I
would have had an entirely different problem if I
hadn't those fine young men that I say we've gotten
trained. If we had inherited a bunch of
troublemakers, you've got problems. Now, that's
really a challenge for a leader. Now, some people
are strong enough, right now I can't think of any,
that can do it all by themselves just because God
gave them all the qualities of leadership and they
were able to do that. But that isn't the way it
happens. You see some people like Patton who's
wealthy. Well, if you're wealthy, you can really
be secure and you can be an individual, see?
Uh-huh. I don't mean he would have been different
if he'd been, wouldn't have been different if he'd
been poor. But certainly he didn't have to worry
about that, for example.
But if you had to make a pronouncement that which
one is more important, the luck that you've
mentioned many times or your own behavior, which
one would you have to say overall in your birth? Oh,
great. You mean if I had to select one and not two? I
know it's impossible. Yeah, I wouldn't do that. I
will say this, though, that I'm convinced, with no
doubt in my mind, that
leaders can be trained.
I don't believe they're born. We say he's a born
leader, and you find some that may be. But if you're
not a born leader, and I certainly wasn't, you can
take an individual who has a physical ability who
has moral standards, who's willing to subjugate
self for the good of the nation of the team right
there, who's willing to suffer to do that. And he
can learn techniques or how to handle different
situations. And he is going to look good because
he'll have a happy commitment.